Theme music plays
In the previous lecture we created a simple Kubernetes cluster
in AWS account using kops.
Now let’s examine how we can set up the key parts
of the high-availability cluster when creating the Kubernetes using kops.
Remember a lot of the managed Kubernetes services
will do this for us.
We’re using kops, so we can examine how to do this ourselves.
So that way when purchasing a service we at least have
a good idea of what’s going on under the hood.
Or if we need to we can always do it ourselves
and our own production cluster so that we manage it the future.
Remember one of the key high-availability design consideration
is how many Masters we will have.
An odd number is important.
Because Kubernetes uses an algorithm
to detect and choose how many Masters
need to be available an even number would create the situation
where there's an equal number of Masters that are down
and Masters that are up.
This would create a situation
where we are not sure if the cluster should be considered up or down.
It would essentially be a tie.
An odd number of Masters never lets this happen.
This is not specific to Kubernetes,
it’s called the M +1 problem in some ways.
It is something that is specific to most systems
that use redundancy for high-availability.
The second thing to consider
is where the Masters are located.
Are they located in the same building,
in the same data center,
the same city or even the same country.
We discussed these a few lectures ago
and your choices that you make are up to you.
They have to match your needs
otherwise they may be a mismatch between your expectations
and the requirements and what you could actual provide in terms of redundancy.
Are you willing to tolerate a citywide disaster;
a statewide disaster or a nationwide disaster.
Who knows you have to make this choices is based on the business line requirements
of your application running on Kubernetes.
Choosing ready his Masters are how many of them
can provide you with an idea of what you’re going to need
to provide resiliency for your high-availability design.
In our case we'll start with only three Masters
and we'll make sure they located in different availability zones.
AWAS availability zones if you're not familiar
are isolated failure areas.
You can think of them as separate data centers.
Even if they’re technically in the same area,
Amazon has warranted to us,
because of the way they’re designed,
that a power, a failure network or even a fire
in one availability zone within a reasonable probability
will not affect the other ones.
We can consider them for our uses today
independent data centers.
We'll use the kops create cluster command
as we did to create our cluster in the previous lecture.
But this time we'll specify a  few high availability options.
We'll specify how many Masters we'd like
and in which zone we'd like these Masters provision.
Let's actually create a high-availability cluster
and deploy an application to it.
First we'll use the kops create command
to create the cluster would be high-availability options,
then we'll look at the nodes to see where our multiple Masters exist.
And then we’ll deploy WordPress and MySQL
without volumes as we have in previous demonstrations
to see how an application is deployed to a high-availability cluster.
Creating a high-availability kops cluster using the kops toolset
is remarkably similar to creating  a non-ha cluster.
In the previous lecture when used kops to create
a single zone, single Master cluster.
If anything were to happen in US-West-2,
our cluster would not function.
Or if something would happen if the machine running our master
We’ll use the same flow with a few new options
to set high-availability cluster using kops.
Our first step will be to ensure that environment variable first state store is set.
We’ll use the existing one we already have.
The export space all capital KOPS_STATE_STORE environment command
and setting it to S3 bucket we created.
Next we'll use the same kops create cluster command to start with,
then we’ll make some changes.
Kops space create space cluster with the name space – – zones
and we'll provide a comma-separated list of zones
in which we like to run.
We only ran in US–West-2A
in the previous lecture.
In this case since availability zones provides us with different redundancy and availability,
if one goes down is relatively certain another won’t
since they run in different places with different power
different connectivity etc.
Let's specify US–West-2B
and US-West–2C.
So three different zones separated by commas.
Then we will have to provide it ––node–count.
How many nodes do we like to run.
In this case let’s run three nodes.
One in each one of our clusters.
So we'll say node count three
Let’s also specify what zones we'd like our Masters to be in
not just our workers.
That’s done by specifying --master-zones.
We'll do the same US–West– 2A,
US–West–2B and US–West–2C.
It’s worth noting we’re creating a significant amount machine for this command,
you'd want sure that if you are going to run this command
that you’re willing to accept the charges.
So we're creating a replication factor of 3: 3 different zones
with three nodes.
We’re going to create many more nodes.
Three times more nodes than we have.
Let's press enter to issue the command.
Much like creating the cluster when we’re only creating one zone.
Kops is executing commands.
How as many more to run so this may take even longer.
Much like last time, we have to wait for our cluster to be ready.
Let's use kops validate cluster to see the current status.
As you can see we can’t even get the nodes quite yet
because we’re still waiting on AWS to provision our resources.
Let’s give it a moment.
Let’s run the command again to see where things are.
Looks like we’re still waiting on Amazon to provision our resources.
It seems we had some progress now but the Masters is still aren't ready.
the nodes have been created
and we can see three Masters have been created.
One in each availability zone that we've described.
And three worker nodes have been created.
Again one in every node in every availability zone that we've described.
Once the output from kops validate cluster
looks like this with a message your cluster is ready with its name.
You’re ready to move on to the next step.
This could take quite a bit of time as AWS has to provision resources
and once those resources come up,
they have to wait for processes to start.
Once your cluster is ready
we'll move on to looking at it.
Let’s use the Kubectl get nodes command
to look on the nodes running in our cluster.
You can see that we have three masters and three worker nodes.
This is what we expect
this way if anyone Master were to suffer an outage
another master will be able to take over.
Seeing that all of our nodes are up in the ready state
assures us that the nodes are up and properly working and accessible.
You may recall when we first set up WordPress and MYSQL
we did so without specifying any persistent volume.
We simple had WordPress and MySQL running as Docker containers.
We'll use those exact same deployment files.
In Kubernetes in production directory
under the setting up high-availability sub directory
of the GitHub repository for this course,
we have copies of both the MySQL-deployment.yaml
and the WordPress-deployment.yaml files.
These are identical configuration files to the ones that we used
in the DNS in-service discovery lecture.
We'll use these two to deploy WordPress and MySQL
without any persistent to our new highly available cluster.
Let's use the kubectl apply – f ./MySQL– WordPress.yaml command
to create MySQL deployment on a cluster.
We'll see that the service and the deployment were properly created.
Let’s do same for WordPress.
Let’s use the Kubectl get deployments command
to look at the status of our deployments.
You can see that MySQL is fully available
were as WordPress is still coming up.
Let’s run it again to see if WordPress is available now.
Both our deployments have deployed just as they would
on a regular nonredundant cluster.
But in the high-availability cluster
it’s now running on top of a more resilient fabric.
As you can see nothing is really change from deployment perspective,
it’s simply the workings of the underlying services of Kubernetes,
which ever come more resilient and robust.
Are they working on a high availability cluster
or a small cluster or a minikube,
the higher-level command largely remain the same.
Let's use the kubectl describe deployment command
to look at the status of WordPress.
Everything looks normal to us.
Now since we have multiple nodes and this is something that we haven’t done before.
Let's look at the pod that is running our deployment
and see what nodes it's running on.
Let’s use the Kubectl describe pods command
to look at the pods running on our system.
If we scroll up there is quite a bit of output from this command,
we can see the WordPress MySQL pod,
this part of the screen is defined as unique pod name at runtime
is running on a node name IP–172–20–86–23.
The scheduler chose this node base on a variety of factors.
Availability CPU use etc.
If we keep scrolling up we can see the WordPress pod.
It's running on the same node.
Kubernetes automatically decide which node to deploy a service to
and deploy a given pod to.
It manages all of that scheduling using the default scheduling algorithm
and you can the see history for that in events.
The default scheduler assign a node,
the pod to run and then further went started the container
and made it available.
Whether you have one or many nodes
Kubernetes handles that process for you.
Of course none of this is particularly interesting to us or to our users,
if we can use the service.
Remember when we create the WordPress yaml file.
We specify an external service.
Let’s get the details of this service using the kubectl describe service
WordPress command.
This’ll give us information about the service
exposing our WordPress container.
We created it as a load balancer
since we're on AMAZON AWS,
we can look at the load balancer ingress.
Which is a host name, let's copy that to the clipboard
and look at a web browser and see what that does.
Let’s navigate to that URL in a web browser.
This should look familiar.
This is our WordPress installation now running on our highly redundant Kubernetes cluster.
Unlike on our minikube this was actually served up from behind the load balancer described here.
This was an Amazon Elastic Load balancer or ELB
that Kubernetes  dynamically provisioned and provided us access to.
In this exercise you've seen how we've set up a highly available cluster
by specifying the high-availability options.
We set how many extra nodes we'd like to create.
How many extra Master nodes we'd like create.
And where we'd like to create them to provide a more robust and resilient fabric for Kubernetes.
We'll also note that simply doing this,
didn’t change the way we interact with Kubernetes.
Because Kubernetes provides isolation
and provides a relatively black box scalability system,
we were able to create a more highly available Kubernetes cluster.
And not have to make any changes at the application layer to deployments
to take advantage of this new highly available cluster.
This provides a variety of mechanisms to the System Administrator
and the application designer to be able to separate the needs of deployment,
resiliency, scale and the nature of being robust
and the application developer, which developed the individual application.
This also provides us with the ability to grow the application
as we may need to.
We can start small on a non-highly available cluster
and move the highly available cluster without making significant or any changes to our application.
Remember unless you'd like to follow along in the next lecture immediately
, take the time to delete your cluster.
This will prevent any further charges from accruing on your Amazon AWS account.
Of course if you’d like to accrue these charges and leave the cluster running that’s your choice.
Again use the  kops delete cluster the name of your cluster
--yes command to  delete the cluster and release the resources.
This may take a moment
similar to last time.The cluster successfully deleted
output is your confirmation that resources were released.
As always there could be bugs in the software and kops may not have succeeded in deleting everything.
To be sure the charges are stopped,
close your Amazon AWS account or access the billing interface to ensure no billable items exist.